---
id: 44
title: Too much Trust in APIs
date: 2013-10-14T00:00:00+00:00
author: Jorden
layout: post
guid: http://www.fbombcode.com/title/Too_much_Trust_in_APIs
permalink: /2013/10/14/too-much-trust-in-apis/
categories:
  - general
---
 <p> I have noticed that I have given too much trust to API&#8217;s. They are so easy and 99% of the time they do what I want. The biggest issue I have come to realize is they hide too much sometimes. What can API&#8217;s do to help foster the original intent, say if you need to diagnosis something further? </p> <p> So, I knew about the OSI model before making lots of web sites and services. There are 7 layers and they work like so: </p> <pre> 1)Application (i.e HTTP) 2)Presentation 3)Session (i.e SSL) 4)Transport (i.e TCP, UDP) 5)Network (i.e IP) 6)Data Link 7)Physical </pre> <p> I know these layers pretty well. And HTTP, I thought was no exception. You can telnet into google&#8217;s web server and give it the ol&#8217; <strong>&#8220;Get http://www.google.com&#8221;</strong> and get back a <strong>200 OK</strong> and the page that Google servers. But there is a huge disconnect between Asp.Net that has made me not understand this in the past. The disconnect is that when I ask for the resource in telnet, my application&#8217;s debugger automatically ends up at the break point inside of the controller. Wait, how did it get there? </p> <p> There is a request object, but it is hidden in the <em>this</em> variable. The worst part is, if you don&#8217;t know what you are looking for, because you have used the framework all your life, you might miss out on <em>this</em>. While you might say, well Jorden, just read the specification that Microsoft has on their site, I do have to compare it to other frameworks. If you look at Node.js, the way it abstracts request and response objects is a better way. How? The request and response objects are <strong> parameters in your function for express and other http web servers, from node!</strong> The request and response objects are right there in the function signature, and are not hidden in a <em>this</em> variable. Do you need to know what function is called for a route or resource? The route is right there smacking you in the face in node.js, as it is part of the application setup. </p> <p> I do think that ASP.net MVC is a great framework, but it is still plagued by not exposing the right abstractions to it&#8217;s developers. If they would have smacked users in the face with the, route, pipeline, request and response objects, then people would have embraced the platform more so. I know, I should research every API I use before I use it. This is something <a href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/LeakyAbstractions.html">Joel on Software</a> suggests, but I feel API developers could spend the time to study the framework and know what is good and bad for the user&#8217;s to know. </p> <p> I think now ASP.net MVC is moving to have routes in the controllers and provide the better visibility, up front, to the developer. This gives us more of a chance at learning the important things about the internet, and hide the other parts for us. Like building a response and request object. </p>