---
id: 58
title: Exception Handling and What To Do
date: 2013-05-13T00:00:00+00:00
author: Jorden
layout: post
guid: http://www.fbombcode.com/title/Exception_Handling_and_What_To_Do
permalink: /2013/05/13/exception-handling-and-what-to-do/
categories:
  - .net
tags:
  - .net
  - exceptions
---
 <p> Exception handling is an interesting topic for me today because I dont know if I am using the right exceptions for the right error. There are a billion of exceptions, so how can we catch/throw these things to provide a better message to the user, or even better, how to correct these errors depending on what the exceptions are? </p> <p> So, my journey started with, what is the best way to throw exceptions? I came to this blog article that brought up good points to take into account on exceptions: </p> <pre> Taken from this site : <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/b/kcwalina/archive/2006/07/05/657268.aspx">http://blogs.msdn.com/b/kcwalina/archive/2006/07/05/657268.aspx</a> Do's 1) Use System namespace exceptions 2) Do use custom exceptions that can be used to resolve the issue (i.e. a user-specific exception that is caught and handled automatically for the user) 3) Throw specific errors Dont's 1) Do not just catch and throw exceptions </pre> <p> In #3 of the Do&#8217;s was the issue I was having recently. I would throw exceptions, but maybe not the ones outlined by Microsoft, or the documentation. After doing some Google searches, I found a couple of exception lists that helped with this issue: </p> <pre class="formatCode"> 1)<a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/x4xzbdb9.aspx">System.Exception</a> 2)<a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.exception.aspx">Exception Base Class</a> 3)<a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/zbea8bay.aspx">Exception Hierarchy</a> </pre> <p> Basically, here are the exceptions I found to be helpful: </p> <table class="table table-striped table-condensed"> <thead> <tr> <th> # </th> <th> Exception Name </th> <th> What it&#8217;s used for? </th> <th> Namespace </th> </tr> </thead> <tbody> <tr> <td>1</td> <td>ApplicationException</td> <td>This is an error that is non-fatal. Think of it like your generic exception to throw.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>2</td> <td>SmtpException</td> <td>Couldn&#8217;t send some e-mail.</td> <td>System.Net.Mail</td> </tr> <tr> <td>3</td> <td>AggregateException</td> <td>If you have more than one error coming back, aggregate them in this exception.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>4</td> <td>ValidationException</td> <td>Represents the exception that occurs during validation of a data field when the ValidationAttribute class is used.</td> <td>System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations</td> </tr> <tr> <td>5</td> <td>HttpRequestException</td> <td>Exceptions for http related stuff. It is a base class used in HttpClient and HttpMessageHandler.</td> <td>System.Net.Http</td> </tr> <tr> <td>6</td> <td>ArgumentException</td> <td>The exception that is thrown when one of the arguments provided to a method is not valid.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>7</td> <td>ArithmeticException</td> <td> The exception that is thrown for errors in an <strong>arithmetic, casting, or conversion operation</strong>. Side note, you could use System.InvalidCastException for casting, too. </td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>8</td> <td>DataException</td> <td>Represents the exception that is thrown when errors are generated using ADO.NET components.</td> <td>System.Data</td> </tr> <tr> <td>9</td> <td>OperationAbortedException</td> <td>This exception is thrown when an ongoing operation is aborted by the user.</td> <td>System.Data</td> </tr> <tr> <td>10</td> <td>FormatException</td> <td>The exception that is thrown when the format of an argument does not meet the parameter specifications of the invoked method.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>11</td> <td>IndexOutOfRangeException</td> <td>Index out of range, nuff said.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>12</td> <td>InvalidOperationException</td> <td>If the object, needs to be initialized with the Start() method or something like that, and you don&#8217;t call it, use this one.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>13</td> <td>IOException</td> <td>Issues with IO.</td> <td>System.IO</td> </tr> <tr> <td>14</td> <td>NotImplementedException</td> <td>Used to be temporary to let you know you didn&#8217;t finish functionality.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>15</td> <td>NotSupportedException</td> <td>So, if you try to read a file that isn&#8217;t there anymore, you should give this error.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>16</td> <td>NullReferenceException</td> <td>Used to throw an attempt to use a null object.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>17</td> <td>SerializationException</td> <td>Used to throw for errors during serializing and deserializing.</td> <td>System.Runtime.Serialization</td> </tr> <tr> <td>18</td> <td>SecurityException</td> <td>A security error. Maybe log in stuff.</td> <td>System.Security</td> </tr> <tr> <td>19</td> <td>XmlSyntaxException</td> <td>For invalid XML, but why is it in Security namespace? I don&#8217;t know, you could just use System.Xml.XmlException, too.</td> <td>System.Security</td> </tr> <tr> <td>20</td> <td>CommunicationException</td> <td>Communication issue on server or client.</td> <td>System.ServiceModel</td> </tr> <tr> <td>21</td> <td>TimeoutException</td> <td>Timeout exception. There is also System.TimeoutException</td> <td>System.ServiceProcess</td> </tr> <tr> <td>22</td> <td>TypeInitializationException</td> <td>The exception that is thrown as a wrapper around the exception thrown by the class initializer. This class cannot be inherited.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>23</td> <td>UnauthorizedAccessException</td> <td>The exception that is thrown when the operating system denies access because of an I/O error or a specific type of security error.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>24</td> <td>FileNotFoundException</td> <td>File was not found</td> <td>System.IO</td> </tr> <tr> <td>25</td> <td>DirectoryNotFoundException </td> <td>Directory was not found.</td> <td>System.IO</td> </tr> <tr> <td>26</td> <td>ArgumentNullException</td> <td>For when your argument, that you pass in to a function, is null.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> <tr> <td>27</td> <td>ObjectDisposedException</td> <td>Object you are trying to use was disposed already, so you throw this error.</td> <td>System</td> </tr> </tbody> </table> <p> Remember, this is guidelines, so if all else fails, write your own. If you have a general exception that you feel like is missing from the list, throw it in the comments and tell why to use it. </p>