---
id: 38
title: Starting Rabbit MQ up for your Mac
date: 2013-12-15T00:00:00+00:00
author: Jorden
layout: post
guid: http://www.fbombcode.com/title/Starting_Rabbit_MQ_up_for_your_Mac
permalink: /2013/12/15/starting-rabbit-mq-up-for-your-mac/
categories:
  - erlang
  - Message Queue
tags:
  - message queue
  - rabbit mq
---
 <p> Been working with Message Queues more and more. They seem like the building blocks required for SOA development. One queue I have been working with, on my own has been Rabbit MQ. There were a couple of things I noticed that I had to do when installing it from Homebrew. Thought I would write a series of articles on setting up Rabbit MQ, starting with setup. </p> <p> I develop on a Mac, from time to time, to see how it is compared to Windows. While there are a few things different, it&#8217;s mostly the same. One of the best things about Unix/Linux are their package managers, like Homebrew (Unix) and apt-get (Linux) </p> <p> To start installing Rabbit MQ on Mac, you have to fire up a couple of commands: </p> <pre class="formatCode"> brew update brew install rabbitmq </pre> <p> The first command updates the brew repository listing to get the most up-to-date applications. This may be needed for installing the dependencies, like Erlang. The second line actually installs rabbitmq. This is a side note, I had some issues with installing, but I think it was with brew. It wanted to install some man files(RTFM files), but couldn&#8217;t. I just ended up giving the man directory some more access, so if that happens, just be aware. </p> <p> When Rabbit MQ is installed, there are a couple of scripts created to help the whole process of administrating the site. They should be located: </p> <pre class="formatCode"> ls /usr/local/sbin/rabbit* </pre> <p> Each one is an important script that automates starting up Rabbit MQ and various other things. If you can, I would add this directory, and /usr/local/bin, to your .bash\_profile . Once done, run the script: </p> <pre class="formatCode"> rabbitmq-server </pre> <p> This will start the server completely, including the administration console. Now to run commands on the admin console, there are 2 ways. The one way is through the command line, using the scripts in /usr/local/sbin. The command is rabbitmqctl. The other way is to visit localhost:15672, in your browser. The default user/password is guest/guest. Once you have changed some names and passwords, there is ONE more thing to get all of this to work right, namely the IP address binding. </p> <p> By default, Rabbit MQ is bound ONLY to localhost. We should change it, especially if you are working out of a VM or on multiple machines. Otherwise, only requests from localhost can use RabbitMQ. To do this you have to visit: </p> <pre class="formatCode"> pico /usr/local/etc/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-env.conf </pre> <p> You should see <b>NODE\_IP_ADDRESS=LOCALHOST</b>, change this to blank, if you want it to listen on all network interfaces. Or, you could change it to a specific IP address if you only want requests coming from that network. You also may have to run this as sudo. </p> <p> Lastly, to test to see if it works, there are a bunch of examples on <a href="http://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html">Rabbit MQ tutorial site</a>. Grab one down and go. Next time, I will explain the various queue types and how they work. </p>